# n-Back task

Adapted from PsychoPy task (made in 2020.1.0, 13/02/2020) from Tibor Auer 

Adapted by Phil Dean, School of Psychology, University of Surrey in PsychoPy v2024.2.4.

Version 1.0, 04/02/2025



## Design: setup

This n-Back experiment is designed to enable a variety of n-back levels (1 or above), and "target" (n-back) probability levels (0.02 or above).

It presents the same level of n-Back for a number of blocks and a number of trials, with targets at a certain probability level. 

It is setup as default for **2-back**, **0.3** (30%) target and **5** blocks of **50** trials. 


It does this be allowing this to be specified when the experiment runs by a pop-up window that asks:

- participant *(your participant number for logfile)*

- session *(session number if more than one session)*

- backN *(n-Back level)*

- probability *(probability between 0 and 1, so 0.3 = 30% target)*

- blocks *(number of blocks to show)*


- trials *(number of trials per block)*

**NB**: if you want to ask a participant to trial the n-back, you can reduce the blocks to **1** and the trials to **10** and put **practise** in session



## Design: stimuli 

Stimuli are letters and defined by this array:

- np.array(['A','B','C','D','E','F','G','H'])

Stimuli are presented for 500ms, with 1500ms inter-stimulus interval (ISI), making 2000ms per trial. 


## Design: experiment

- Introduction screen

- n-Back Block (50 stimuli, with 2 seconds per stimuli)

- Confidence rating: "Please select your confidence level in your performance from 0 to 100 %"

If the number of stimuli in a block is 50 and probability is 0.3 (30%), this makes 15 target stimuli per block. 

NB: this makes 75 targets over 5 blocks.

Reponse button is space bar. 

Press space bar if current stimuli matches stimuli *n* previous, otherwise make no response. 


## Design: Probability of target

This is created in the code by making a probability that something is a "non-target" as:

- (np.random.uniform() > float(expInfo['probability']))

A random number is generated between 0 and 1. If it exceeds the specified probability (e.g. 0.3), the condition is true. 

If this condition is true, then a non-target trial is shown (any letter except the matching one). 

If the probability is 0.3 or less, then a "target" n-back is shown. 

**NB: this means that the number of targets is not always 15, but varies a little (e.g. could be 14 or 16) as this is not hard coded but generated by a probability distribution**





## Design: Confidence rating



**NB:** the "confidence rating" was added for a specific study comparison (with Mental Rotation) and is disabled usually. and can be re-enabled within the confidence rating routine under "routine settings" (top left) - "testing" - "disable routine" and unticking this box.





## Design: EEG Markers



EEG Marker setup to use with BrainVision Trigger box (COM3 serial port) have been put into the code within the program, but this has been commented out as default (as otherwise program will look for trigger port). 



To enable this, look for code under "Uncomment the below for EEG Markers" and remove one # from the below. 



**NB**: this has not been tested to see if it works and so is a stub. 
